+++
title = "Automation on the generation of genome-scale metabolic models"
date = "2012-01-01"
authors = ["Raymari Reyes", "Daniel Gamermann", "admin", "David Fuente", "Julián Triana", "Javier F Urchueguía", "Pedro Fernández de Córdoba"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Journal of computational biology : a journal of computational molecular cell biology, (19), 12, _pp. 1295--306_, https://doi.org/10.1089/cmb.2012.0183"
publication_short = "Journal of computational biology : a journal of computational molecular cell biology, (19), 12, _pp. 1295--306_, https://doi.org/10.1089/cmb.2012.0183"
abstract = "Nowadays, the reconstruction of genome-scale metabolic models is a nonautomatized and interactive process based on decision making. This lengthy process usually requires a full year of one person's work in order to satisfactory collect, analyze, and validate the list of all metabolic reactions present in a specific organism. In order to write this list, one manually has to go through a huge amount of genomic, metabolomic, and physiological information. Currently, there is no optimal algorithm that allows one to automatically go through all this information and generate the models taking into account probabilistic criteria of unicity and completeness that a biologist would consider. This work presents the automation of a methodology for the reconstruction of genome-scale metabolic models for any organism. The methodology that follows is the automatized version of the steps implemented manually for the reconstruction of the genome-scale metabolic model of a photosynthetic organism, Synechocystis sp. PCC6803. The steps for the reconstruction are implemented in a computational platform (COPABI) that generates the models from the probabilistic algorithms that have been developed. For validation of the developed algorithm robustness, the metabolic models of several organisms generated by the platform have been studied together with published models that have been manually curated. Network properties of the models, like connectivity and average shortest mean path of the different models, have been compared and analyzed."
summary = ""
image_preview = ""
featured = false
projects = ["metabolism"]
tags = ["metabolism"]
url_pdf = "http://online.liebertpub.com/doi/abs/10.1089/cmb.2012.0183"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
